Release 4.10 (#1)
redhat-ztp/openshift-acm-oot-drv: README.md

# openshift-acm-oot-drv

> This repository contains playbooks to manage out of tree drivers using the Special Resource Operator on Redhat ACM managed clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This repository contains playbooks to manage out-of-tree drivers using the Special Resource Operator on Red Hat ACM (RHACM) managed clusters.
```

> The target deployment model is a RHACM hub cluster managing many spoke SNO clusters as illustrated below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The target deployment model is a RHACM hub cluster managing multi-spoke Single Node OpenShift (SNO) clusters.
```

│             ├──────────────────────┤           ├─────────────┼─────┤ SNO SET-B │├┐
│ Host        │                      │  Cluster  │             │     │           │││
└─────────────┘                      │           │             │     └┬──────────┘││
                                     └───────────┘             │      └───────────┘│
                                                               │       └───────────┘
                                                               │
                                                               │
                                                               │     ┌───────────┐
                                                               │     │           ├┐
                                                               └─────┤ SNO SET-C │├┐
                                                                     │           │││
                                                                     └┬──────────┘││
                                                                      └───────────┘│
                                                                       └───────────┘

```

> The playbooks deploy SRO on the ACM Hub cluster and builds the drivers there.  Then uses a MachineConfig wrapped in an ACM policy to deploy the driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible playbooks deploy SpecialResourceOperator (SRO) on the ACM Hub cluster and builds the drivers there, then uses a MachineConfig wrapped in an ACM policy to deploy the driver.
```

> It currently only supports Single Node Openshift (SNO) nodes as managed clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The playbooks only supports SNO nodes as managed clusters.
```

### Dependencies

Requires the following to be installed on the provisioner host:

- [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html#installing-ansible-on-specific-operating-systems)
- [podman](https://github.com/containers/podman/)
- [oc client](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html)

```bash
dnf install ansible podman pip
pip install kubernetes
```

There's also some required Ansible modules that can be installed with the following command:

```bash
ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml
```

> ## Before Running The Playbook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> There are few setup steps required prior to running the playbook with the sample driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps are required prior to running the playbook.
```

> - Make sure you can run the OpenShift CLI as a user with cluster-admin privileges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify the `oc` client can be run as a user with cluster-admin privileges
```

> - Setup the necessary prerequisites by running the `deploy_prerequisites.yml` playbook

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Run the `deploy_prerequisites.yml` playbook
```

```
- Add your pull secret as a Secret named `external-registry` in the `oot-driver` namespace so that SRO can pull/push the images it needs from/to your local registry.

```bash
# Your pull secret should contain credentials to pull from the standard image registries as well as your local registry.
export PULL_SECRET='/path/to/your/pull-secret'
oc -n oot-driver create secret generic external-registry --from-file=.dockerconfigjson=${PULL_SECRET} --type=kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
```

- Add the local registry's certificate as a ConfigMap named `registry-cas` in the `openshift-config` namespace, then update the cluster image configuration

```bash
export REGISTRY_FQDN='registry.example.lab'
export REGISTRY_PORT='5000'
export REGISTRY_CERT='/path/to/your/registry/domain.crt'

oc create configmap registry-cas -n openshift-config --from-file=${REGISTRY_FQDN}..${REGISTRY_PORT}=${REGISTRY_CERT}
oc patch image.config.openshift.io/cluster --patch '{"spec":{"additionalTrustedCA":{"name":"registry-cas"}}}' --type=merge
```

- Add the `specialresource.openshift.io/intel-eth-800` label that the sample driver is expecting onto the nodes that have the Intel(R) Ethernet 800 Series NIC

> ## Running The Playbooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run the playbooks

The playbooks provided in this repository will build and deploy a sample driver which is for the Intel(R) Ethernet 800 Series NICs.

- `deploy_sro.yml`: installs SRO on the ACM HUB cluster using the provided kubeconfig
- `build_drivers.yml`: creates and applies the SpecialResource CRs to kick start the driver builds
- `deploy_drivers.yml`: deploys the driver containers onto the managed SNOs through ACM policy

To run the playbooks with the provided sample driver, use these commands.

```bash
ansible-playbook -i inventory deploy_sro.yml
ansible-playbook -i inventory build_drivers.yml
ansible-playbook -i inventory deploy_drivers.yml
```

> ## Adding your own drivers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add the drivers
```

> To add you own drivers, you can follow the sample driver provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add your own drivers, you can follow the sample driver provided.
```
